# 3_Way_Authen

# One-Time Password (OTP) Implementation
### About
This project provides a secure and efficient implementation of One-Time Password (OTP) functionality for user authentication and sensitive action verification.<br>
OTPs are temporary codes that provide an additional layer of security, commonly used for two-factor authentication (2FA) in various applications.<br>

### Features
Supports both Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP) and HMAC-based One-Time Password (HOTP) algorithms.<br>
Customizable OTP length and expiry duration for enhanced security.<br>
Easy integration into existing applications or systems.<br>
Secure storage and transmission of OTPs to prevent unauthorized access.<br>
Robust error handling and retry mechanisms for a seamless user experience.<br>

### Installation
To use this OTP implementation in your project, follow these steps:<br>

### Clone this repository to your local machine:<br>
    git clone https://github.com/PriyanshuKSharma/3_Way_Authen.git

Integrate the OTP generation and validation logic into your application codebase.<br>
Install any required dependencies or libraries specified in the project documentation.<br>
Customize OTP settings such as length and expiry duration according to your requirements.<br>
Ensure secure storage and transmission of OTPs within your application.<br>

### Usage
Generate OTP: When a user attempts to log in or perform a sensitive action, generate an OTP using the provided functions.<br>
Send OTP: Send the generated OTP to the user via their preferred communication channel (e.g., SMS, email, app notification).<br>
Verify OTP: Prompt the user to input the OTP they received and validate it against the OTP generated by the server.<br>
Handle Expiry and Errors: Implement logic to handle cases where the OTP entered by the user is incorrect or has expired.<br>

### Contributing
Contributions to this project are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements, new features, or bug fixes, please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue on GitHub.<br>
For major changes, please discuss them in advance to ensure alignment with the project goals.
